CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing

## Prerequisites

- [Visual Studio 2019](https://www.visualstudio.com)
  with following workloads:
  - .NET Core Cross Platform Development
  - .NET desktop development
  - Visual Studio extension development.
  - Desktop development with C++
- [Windows 10 SDK](https://dev.windows.com/en-US/downloads/windows-10-sdk)
- Git
- Windows Powershell v3.0+

> Note that you can work on the NuGet.Client repo with Visual Studio 2017, but you will be unable to test the Visual Studio extension.

## Contributing step-by-step

1. [Open an issue here](https://github.com/NuGet/Home/issues) and get some feedback from the NuGet team.
1. Follow the instructions in [Code](#code)
1. Make your change, and add tests.
1. Create a [pull request](https://github.com/NuGet/NuGet.Client/pulls).
1. _One-time_: Sign the contributor license agreement, if you haven't signed it before. The [.NET Foundation Bot](https://github.com/dnfclas) will comment on the pull request you just created and guide you on how to sign the CLA.
1. Submit a doc pull request to the [docs.microsoft-com.nuget](https://github.com/NuGet/docs.microsoft.com-nuget/) repo, if this is a new feature or behavior change.

## Code

The way non-NuGet members contribute to this repository is via the [fork model](https://help.github.com/articles/fork-a-repo/). Contributors push changes to their own "forked" version of NuGet.Client, and then submit a pull request into it requesting those changes be merged.

To get started:

1. Fork the repo.

2. From a git enable terminal, run (replacing _[user-name]_ with your GitHub user name):

```console
\> git clone https://github.com/[user-name]/NuGet.Client
\> cd NuGet.Client
\NuGet.Client> git remote add upstream https://github.com/NuGet/NuGet.Client
\NuGet.Client> git remote set-url --push upstream no_push
```

After running above, `git remote -v` should show something similar to the following:

```console
\NuGet.Client> git remote -v

origin  https://github.com/[user-name]/NuGet.Client (fetch)
origin  https://github.com/[user-name]/NuGet.Client (push)
upstream        https://github.com/NuGet/NuGet.Client (fetch)
upstream        no_push (push)
```

### NuGet team members

NuGet members may contribute directly to the main remote.

## Build

1. Clone the NuGet.Client repository.

1. Start PowerShell. CD into the cloned repository directory.

1. Run the configuration script

    `.\configure.ps1`

1. Build with

    `.\build.ps1 -SkipUnitTest`

   Or Build and Unit test with

   `.\build.ps1`

    > Note: You have to to run .\configure.ps1 and .\build.ps1 at least once in order for your build to succeed.

1. Run unit and functional tests if inside Microsoft corpnet with

    `.\runTests.ps1`

> In case you have build issues try cleaning the local repository using `git clean -xdf` and retry steps 3 and 4.

### Notable `build.ps1` switches

- `-SkipUnitTest` - skips running unit tests.
- `-Fast` - runs minimal incremental build. Skips end-to-end packaging step.

> Reveal all script parameters and switches by running
  Get-Help .\build.ps1 -detailed

### Build artifacts location

- `$(NuGetClientRoot)\artifacts\VS15` - this folder will contain the Package Manager extension (`NuGet.Tools.vsix`) and NuGet command-line client application (`NuGet.exe`)
- `$(NuGetClientRoot)\artifacts\nupkgs` - this folder will contain all our projects packages

## Resources for NuGet.Client development

- [Workflow](docs/workflow.md)
- [Coding Guidelines](docs/coding-guidelines.md)

## Docs generation

To update the auto-generated documentation, run the following in the repo root:

 ```
 dotnet msbuild .\build\docs.proj
 ```

Updated docs will be at `$(NuGetClientRoot)\docs`

Commit message:

Add community PR info to contribution doc

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing

## Prerequisites

- [Visual Studio 2019](https://www.visualstudio.com)
  with following workloads:
  - .NET Core Cross Platform Development
  - .NET desktop development
  - Visual Studio extension development.
  - Desktop development with C++
- [Windows 10 SDK](https://dev.windows.com/en-US/downloads/windows-10-sdk)
- Git
- Windows Powershell v3.0+

> Note that you can work on the NuGet.Client repo with Visual Studio 2017, but you will be unable to test the Visual Studio extension.

## Contributing step-by-step

1. [Open an issue here](https://github.com/NuGet/Home/issues) and get some feedback from the NuGet team.
1. Follow the instructions in [Code](#code)
1. Make your change, and add tests. Please name your branch `dev-<userid>-<very-short-title>`.
1. Create a [pull request](https://github.com/NuGet/NuGet.Client/pulls).
    * Keep the pull request template, and link to an issue [NuGet/Home](https://github.com/NuGet/Home/issues). Create a new issue if you cannot find an existing one. Use a meaningful PR title, not the autogenerated title based on the branch name.
    * All PRs created by someone outside the NuGet team will be assigned the `Community` label, and a team member will be assigned as the PR shepherd, who will be responsible for making sure the PR gets reviewed (even if they don't review it themselves), and periodically check the PR for progress.
    * If the NuGet team requests changes and the PR author does not respond within 1 month, a reminder will be added. If no action is taken within 2 months of the reminder, the PR will be closed due to inactivity.
1. _One-time_: Sign the contributor license agreement, if you haven't signed it before. The [.NET Foundation Bot](https://github.com/dnfclas) will comment on the pull request you just created and guide you on how to sign the CLA.
1. Submit a doc pull request to the [docs.microsoft-com.nuget](https://github.com/NuGet/docs.microsoft.com-nuget/) repo, if this is a new feature or behavior change.


## Code

The way non-NuGet members contribute to this repository is via the [fork model](https://help.github.com/articles/fork-a-repo/). Contributors push changes to their own "forked" version of NuGet.Client, and then submit a pull request into it requesting those changes be merged.

To get started:

1. Fork the repo.

2. From a git enable terminal, run (replacing _[user-name]_ with your GitHub user name):

```console
\> git clone https://github.com/[user-name]/NuGet.Client
\> cd NuGet.Client
\NuGet.Client> git remote add upstream https://github.com/NuGet/NuGet.Client
\NuGet.Client> git remote set-url --push upstream no_push
```

After running above, `git remote -v` should show something similar to the following:

```console
\NuGet.Client> git remote -v

origin  https://github.com/[user-name]/NuGet.Client (fetch)
origin  https://github.com/[user-name]/NuGet.Client (push)
upstream        https://github.com/NuGet/NuGet.Client (fetch)
upstream        no_push (push)
```

### NuGet team members

NuGet members may contribute directly to the main remote.

## Build

1. Clone the NuGet.Client repository.

1. Start PowerShell. CD into the cloned repository directory.

1. Run the configuration script

    `.\configure.ps1`

1. Build with

    `.\build.ps1 -SkipUnitTest`

   Or Build and Unit test with

   `.\build.ps1`

    > Note: You have to to run .\configure.ps1 and .\build.ps1 at least once in order for your build to succeed.

1. Run unit and functional tests if inside Microsoft corpnet with

    `.\runTests.ps1`

> In case you have build issues try cleaning the local repository using `git clean -xdf` and retry steps 3 and 4.

### Notable `build.ps1` switches

- `-SkipUnitTest` - skips running unit tests.
- `-Fast` - runs minimal incremental build. Skips end-to-end packaging step.

> Reveal all script parameters and switches by running
  Get-Help .\build.ps1 -detailed

### Build artifacts location

- `$(NuGetClientRoot)\artifacts\VS15` - this folder will contain the Package Manager extension (`NuGet.Tools.vsix`) and NuGet command-line client application (`NuGet.exe`)
- `$(NuGetClientRoot)\artifacts\nupkgs` - this folder will contain all our projects packages

## Resources for NuGet.Client development

- [Workflow](docs/workflow.md)
- [Coding Guidelines](docs/coding-guidelines.md)

## Docs generation

To update the auto-generated documentation, run the following in the repo root:

 ```
 dotnet msbuild .\build\docs.proj
 ```

Updated docs will be at `$(NuGetClientRoot)\docs`
